.TH "pgv" "5" "July, 2014" "" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
pgv.yaml \- PostgreSQL schema versioning tool configuration file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]pgv\f[] is schema versioning tool for PostgreSQL.
It is best if \f[B]pgv.yaml\f[] is located in top of project repository.
File can contains sections and options described below, otherwise
default values will be used.
.PP
Values can be containes environment variables, like
\f[I]\f[I]H\f[]\f[I]O\f[]\f[I]M\f[]\f[I]E\f[] * \f[I]o\f[]\f[I]r\f[] * PWD\f[].
.SH VCS
.PP
This section describes version control system(e.g.: \f[I]git\f[],
\f[I]hg\f[], ...) that you want to use.
Key \f[B]provider\f[] defines type of vcs, by default it is git.
Other keys are provider dependant.
\f[B]prefix\f[] is prefix of target files relatively to top of
repository defined by \f[B]url\f[].
\f[B]include\f[] can be contains list of patterns.
All matching files will be added to revision even it does not changed.
.SH DATABASE
.PP
\f[B]isolation_level\f[] describes transaction isolation
level(autocommit by default).
It can be on of: * autocommit * read_commited * repeatable_read *
serializable
.PP
See
psycopg2 (http://initd.org/psycopg/docs/extensions.html#isolation-level-constants)
for details.
.SH PACKAGE
.PP
This section setup default package \f[B]format\f[] and \f[B]path\f[].
\f[B]format\f[] can be:
.TP
.B \f[B]directory\f[]
simple directory with sql files.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]tar\f[]
tar archive with sql files.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]tar.gz\f[]
gzipped tar archive.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]tar.bz2\f[]
bzipped tar archive.
.RS
.RE
.PP
If \f[B]format\f[] is not specified then it will computed from
\f[B]path\f[] by extension.
Default \f[I]path\f[] is \f[B]$PWD/.pgv/dist.tar.gz\f[].
.SH LOGGING
.PP
\f[B]level\f[] and \f[B]filename\f[] \- names speak for themselves.
\f[B]INFO\f[] and \f[B]$PWD/.pgv/pgv.log\f[] by default respectively.
\f[B]bytes\f[] and \f[B]count\f[] describes log rotating(1000000 and 4
by default).
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]pgv\ (1)\f[]
